---
layout: post
title: Week 2-50 Shades
subtitle: 
tags: []
---

### Object I Chose

I always have an interest in railways/mass transits, as well as their signages.

Therefore the idea of playing around with subway signs immmediately occured when I read about this assignment. They are everywhere, they have a simple yet effective design, and they have a ton a variations, a good starting point.



### The Process

! [](W2/File 0.png)

The starting point. This is the type of signage usually hanged on the beams near the platform edge. It's extremely simple, with white Helvetica text on black background.



#### Basic Changes

First I decided to do some basic UI/UX to warm up. I tried to improve the current design (well maybe not the "J" St one, that's just for fun) by adding some informations that I feel might be useful.

! [](../assets/img/W2/File 1.png)



#### "The Future"

Then I reflected about the purpose of these signs. In the current digital age, nearly everyone has a smartphone with GPS, and trains with electronic displays, the importance of these signages seem to be declining. Here I used some humor to imagine a dystopian future where the signs serves simply as a portal to your glass screen.

! [](../assets/img/W2/File 2.png)



#### Urban Development & Changes

Many NYC subway stations uses a "Primary name" that's usually based on the street it's located, followed by a "Secondary name" as a disambiguation or to mark a significant landmark nearby. However, street names are not necessarily the most intuitive way to refer to a area. If in the future an entity have grown to have a dominant significane of a place, will it be more straightforward to refer the place by that entity (sort of like how we call all tapes "Scotch")?

! [](../assets/img/W2/File 3.png)



#### Around the World

I love how different cultures around the world adopt different designs to their signage system, and how social environments plays a role in shaping those design decisions. Here I recreated the station name sign in London Underground, Paris Metro, Hong Kong MTR, and Japan Railway style.

! [](../assets/img/W2/File 4.png)



#### "Useful Information"

Digging deeper into the idea of station name signs decreasing in importance, as we are seeing more electronic displays in subway stations, we might see these static signs get replaced as well. Here I made jokes about displaying situation-aware funny messages on the signs.

! [](../assets/img/W2/File 5.png)



#### Ethnic Enclaves

NYC is full of ethnic enclaves. Therefore I created some versions of bilingual signs. What's more, the foreign language is actually placed before English, which is actually what you'll see when you take a walk around places like Chinatown.

! [](../assets/img/W2/File 6.png)



#### Materials & Textures

Using different texures for the sign based on the characteristic of the station's location.

! [](../assets/img/W2/File 7.png)



#### Parallel Universe

The current day MTA is merged from 3 different subway companies in the 20th century. Here I imagined what if that merger never happened, and the 3 systems are kept distinct from each other (of course we need slogans).

! [](../assets/img/W2/File 8.png)



#### "Useful Information 2"

! [](../assets/img/W2/File 9.png)



#### Abstract Sketches 1

From here I switched to sketches and doodles. Practicing on the reading materials' ideas, I did some very rough and abstract rendition of different signs, focusing on their prominent features.

! [](../assets/img/W2/File 10.png)



#### Flow of People

An attempt to depict how different types of signs affect the flow of people.

! [](../assets/img/W2/File 11.png)



#### Abstract Sketches 2

Then I started to put the signs back to its environment, trying to do a abstract depiction of how the signs are seen by passengers.

! [](../assets/img/W2/File 12.png)



#### Abstract Sketches 3

Here I further abstracted the recurring and tunnel-like placement of the signages.

! [](../assets/img/W2/File 13.png)



#### Special Editions

Similar spirit as previous location-specific sign designs, but done in sketch. I find that compared to vector graphics, sketching allows me to create more complex variations in lower fidelity.

! [](../assets/img/W2/File 14.png)

